# Google Search Automation Using Screenplay

Using Serenity BDD as a library to makes easier to write high quality automated acceptance tests, with powerful reporting and living documentation features and also implementing Screenplay Design Pattern.
We focus to automated an specific test case for the Google Home Page searching

The latest version of Serenity supports Cucumber 5.5.

### The project directory structure
The project has build scripts for Maven, and follows the standard directory structure used in most Serenity projects:
```Gherkin
src
  + main
  + test
    + java                        Test runners and supporting code
    + resources
      + features                  Feature files
     + search                  Feature file subdirectories 
             search_by_keyword.feature
```

Serenity 2.2.13 introduced integration with WebdriverManager to download webdriver binaries.

## The sample scenario
Both variations of the sample project uses the sample Cucumber scenario. In this scenario, Felipe (who likes to search for stuff) is performing a search on the internet:

```Gherkin
Feature: Search by keyword

  Scenario: Searching for a term
    Given Sergey is researching things on the internet
    When he looks up "Cucumber"
    Then he should see information about "Cucumber"
```

## Executing the tests
To run the project, you can either just run the `CucumberTestSuite` test runner class, or run either `mvn verify` from the command line.

By default, the tests will run using Chrome. You can run them in Firefox by overriding the `driver` system property, e.g.
```json
$ mvn clean verify -Ddriver=firefox
```

The test results will be recorded in the `target/site/serenity` directory.

## Generating the reports
The Full Serenity reports are generated by the `serenity-maven-plugin`. You can trigger this by running `mvn serenity:aggregate` from the command line or from your IDE.

The reports are also integrated into the Maven build process: the following code in the `pom.xml` file causes the reports to be generated automatically once all the tests have completed when you run `mvn verify`?

```
             <plugin>
                <groupId>net.serenity-bdd.maven.plugins</groupId>
                <artifactId>serenity-maven-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>${serenity.maven.version}</version>
                <configuration>
                    <tags>${tags}</tags>
                </configuration>
                <executions>
                    <execution>
                        <id>serenity-reports</id>
                        <phase>post-integration-test</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>aggregate</goal>
                        </goals>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
```

## Simplified WebDriver configuration and other Serenity extras
The sample projects both use some Serenity features which make configuring the tests easier. In particular, Serenity uses the `serenity.conf` file in the `src/test/resources` directory to configure test execution options.  
### Webdriver configuration
The WebDriver configuration is managed entirely from this file, as illustrated below:
```java
webdriver {
    driver = chrome
}
headless.mode = true

chrome.switches="""--start-maximized;--test-type;--no-sandbox;--ignore-certificate-errors;
                   --disable-popup-blocking;--disable-default-apps;--disable-extensions-file-access-check;
                   --incognito;--disable-infobars,--disable-gpu"""

```

Serenity uses WebDriverManager to download the WebDriver binaries automatically before the tests are executed.

### Environment-specific configurations
We can also configure environment-specific properties and options, so that the tests can be run in different environments. Here, we configure default environment
```json
environments {
  default {
    webdriver.base.url = "https://google.com"
  }
}
```

You use the `environment` system property to determine which environment to run against. For example to run the tests in the staging environment, you could run:
```json
$ mvn clean verify -Denvironment=staging
```